{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .TimesFB-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Need:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \strokec2 1. Full enterprise SOC 2\
2. Full HIPAA compliance stack\
3. Mature security operations\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \strokec2 We are architected for HIPAA readiness, and here\'92s our compliance plan.
\fs24 \
\
\
Sending PHI to an LLM vendor 
\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  That vendor must be a Business Associate and sign a BAA.\
	
\f1\b0 A 
\f0\b BAA
\f1\b0  is a 
\f0\b Business Associate Agreement
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 	It is a legally binding contract required under HIPAA when a company (like your app or a vendor you use) 	handles 
\f0\b \strokec2 Protected Health Information (PHI)
\f1\b0 \strokec2  on behalf of a covered healthcare entity\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 <$Scr_H::1>
\f0\b\fs48 Could an LLM Be Technically HIPAA-Capable?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \strokec2 <!$Scr_H::1>
\f1 Yes.\
An LLM platform could be built with:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Encryption at rest\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 TLS in transit\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Access controls\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Audit logging\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Data retention controls\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Dedicated infrastructure\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 No training on customer data\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Regional isolation\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Signed BAAs\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 That 
\f4\i \strokec2 would
\f1\i0 \strokec2  support HIPAA-compliant usage.\
Some enterprise cloud AI offerings are structured this way.\
But the critical piece is:\uc0\u8232 
\f0\b \strokec2 They must contractually accept HIPAA obligations via a BAA.
\f1\b0 \strokec2 \
HIPAA Safe Harbor requires removing 18 specific identifiers, including:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Names\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Geographic subdivisions smaller than a state\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 All dates (except year)\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Phone numbers\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Email\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 SSN\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Medical record numbers\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Biometric identifiers\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Full face photos\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Any other unique identifying number or characteristic\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 \
HIPAA (United States)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f1 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act governs protected health information (PHI) in the US. It has two main rules: the 
\f0\b Privacy Rule
\f1\b0 , which controls how PHI can be used and disclosed, and the 
\f0\b Security Rule
\f1\b0 , which mandates administrative, physical, and technical safeguards for electronic PHI. HIPAA applies to "covered entities" (healthcare providers, insurers, clearinghouses) and their business associates. There's no formal "HIPAA certification" from the government\'97compliance is self-assessed and enforced through audits and penalties by the Office for Civil Rights.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 European Data Compliance\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b GDPR
\f1\b0  (General Data Protection Regulation) is the overarching framework for all personal data in the EU/EEA. It emphasizes consent, data minimization, the right to erasure, and data portability. For healthcare specifically, GDPR classifies health data as a "special category" requiring additional protections. Organizations must appoint Data Protection Officers and conduct Data Protection Impact Assessments for high-risk processing. Fines can reach 4% of global annual revenue.\
Some EU countries layer additional health-specific regulations on top of GDPR\'97France has requirements through CNIL, Germany has federal and state-level health data laws, etc.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 Healthcare-Specific Certifications and Standards\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b HITRUST CSF
\f1\b0  is probably the most recognized certification in US healthcare. It's a certifiable framework that harmonizes requirements from HIPAA, NIST, ISO, and other standards into a single assessment. Many healthcare organizations require HITRUST certification from their vendors.\

\f0\b SOC 2
\f1\b0  (Service Organization Control 2) isn't healthcare-specific but is widely used by health tech companies. It audits controls around security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality, and privacy. A SOC 2 Type II report demonstrates that controls were operating effectively over time.\

\f0\b ISO 27001
\f1\b0  is the international standard for information security management systems. It's not healthcare-specific but provides a rigorous framework that many healthcare organizations use as a foundation, sometimes alongside healthcare-specific certifications.\

\f0\b ISO 27799
\f1\b0  specifically provides guidance on implementing ISO 27001 within healthcare environments, addressing the unique requirements of health informatics.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 Other Notable Frameworks\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b NIST Cybersecurity Framework
\f1\b0  is often referenced by US healthcare organizations as a security baseline. 
\f0\b FedRAMP
\f1\b0 matters if you're working with US government healthcare programs. In the UK, 
\f0\b NHS Data Security and Protection Toolkit
\f1\b0  is required for organizations handling NHS data.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The practical reality is that most healthcare technology companies pursue a combination\'97typically HITRUST or SOC 2 as a baseline certification, HIPAA compliance documentation, and GDPR compliance if serving European markets. The trend has been toward HITRUST because it maps across multiple frameworks and reduces audit fatigue.\
}