{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 There are three tiers of encryption on iOS, and they stack:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \strokec2 Tier 1 \'97 iOS Data Protection (do this now, it's free).
\f0\b0 \strokec2  Set 
\f2\fs26 \strokec2 NSFileProtectionComplete
\f0\fs24 \strokec2  on your records directory. The OS encrypts every file at rest using the device passcode and Secure Enclave. Files are unreadable when the device is locked. Zero code changes to your read/write logic, zero processing overhead, and it's what Apple recommends for health data. This alone is legally meaningful \'97 it's hardware-backed AES-256.\

\f1\b \strokec2 Tier 2 \'97 Keychain for secrets + encrypted index (do this now, small effort).
\f0\b0 \strokec2  You're already using Keychain for the API key. Move any sensitive metadata (patient names, record titles) in 
\f2\fs26 \strokec2 index.json
\f0\fs24 \strokec2  to an encrypted blob using CryptoKit's 
\f2\fs26 \strokec2 AES.GCM
\f0\fs24 \strokec2  with a key stored in the Keychain. The record files themselves are already protected by Tier 1. This gives you field-level protection for the metadata that ties records to real people.\

\f1\b \strokec2 Tier 3 \'97 Full record-level encryption with CryptoKit (defer to later).
\f0\b0 \strokec2  Encrypt each record's content with its own key, wrap those keys with a master key in Keychain/Secure Enclave. This is the HIPAA/NIST-grade approach but it changes your entire read/write pipeline and makes debugging much harder. Save this for when your data model is stable.\
So concretely for this sprint, the work would be:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Set file protection on the Documents/records directory (5 lines of code)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Create a small 
\f2\fs26 EncryptionService
\f0\fs24  using CryptoKit for the index\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Wrap your existing 
\f2\fs26 index.json
\f0\fs24  read/write in encrypt/decrypt calls\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Document the encryption architecture for future HIPAA audit trail\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 This gives you a defensible encryption posture now without slowing down feature development. When you're ready for Tier 3 later, the 
\f2\fs26 \strokec2 EncryptionService
\f0\fs24 \strokec2  is already there \'97 you just expand its scope.\
}