{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .TimesFB-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Need:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 1. Full enterprise SOC 2\
2. Full HIPAA compliance stack\
3. Mature security operations\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 We are architected for HIPAA readiness, and here\'92s our compliance plan.
\fs24 \
\
\
Sending PHI to an LLM vendor 
\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  That vendor must be a Business Associate and sign a BAA.\
	
\f1\b0 A 
\f0\b BAA
\f1\b0  is a 
\f0\b Business Associate Agreement
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	It is a legally binding contract required under HIPAA when a company (like your app or a vendor you use) 	handles 
\f0\b Protected Health Information (PHI)
\f1\b0  on behalf of a covered healthcare entity\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 GDPR
\f1\b0  is actually the easiest to credibly claim. It's a legal framework, not a certification. You don't get "certified" \'97 you just comply. For a US app with no EU users yet, you write a GDPR-compliant privacy policy, add a data deletion mechanism, and you can say "GDPR compliant" in your marketing. One sprint, mostly legal/copy work.\

\f0\b HIPAA
\f1\b0  is second. Same deal \'97 it's a legal standard, not a certification. There's no HIPAA certificate issued by any authority. You implement reasonable safeguards (encryption at rest, encryption in transit, access controls, audit logging) \'97 which you already have \'97 write a privacy policy that covers PHI, and you can market it. You already built most of this. The BAA is just a contract you sign with your vendors (Cloudflare, Neon, OpenAI) that says they'll handle PHI appropriately.\

\f0\b SOC 2
\f1\b0  is where it gets real. This is an actual audit by a licensed CPA firm. Type 1 is a point-in-time snapshot, Type 2 is 6-12 months of operational evidence. Minimum cost is around $15-30k and several months of work. High credibility, especially for B2B.\

\f0\b HITRUST
\f1\b0  is SOC 2 but harder, more expensive, and more respected in healthcare specifically. $50-100k+ range.\

\f0\b NIST, ISO 27001
\f1\b0  \'97 significant compliance programs requiring dedicated resources.\

\f0\b CNIL
\f1\b0  is France's GDPR enforcement body \'97 not a separate certification, just GDPR with French-specific requirements.\

\f0\b For your current stage:
\f1\b0  claim HIPAA-conscious design and GDPR compliance in your marketing. Both are defensible with your current architecture, cost almost nothing, and resonate strongly with health-conscious consumers. SOC 2 becomes the right investment when you're selling to enterprises or raising institutional money.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_H::1>
\f0\b\fs48 Could an LLM Be Technically HIPAA-Capable?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1>
\f1 Yes.\
An LLM platform could be built with:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Encryption at rest\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
TLS in transit\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Access controls\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Audit logging\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data retention controls\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Dedicated infrastructure\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
No training on customer data\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Regional isolation\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Signed BAAs\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 That 
\f4\i would
\f1\i0  support HIPAA-compliant usage.\
Some enterprise cloud AI offerings are structured this way.\
But the critical piece is:\uc0\u8232 
\f0\b They must contractually accept HIPAA obligations via a BAA.
\f1\b0 \
HIPAA Safe Harbor requires removing 18 specific identifiers, including:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Names\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Geographic subdivisions smaller than a state\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
All dates (except year)\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Phone numbers\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Email\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SSN\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Medical record numbers\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Biometric identifiers\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Full face photos\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Any other unique identifying number or characteristic\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 \
HIPAA (United States)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f1 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act governs protected health information (PHI) in the US. It has two main rules: the 
\f0\b Privacy Rule
\f1\b0 , which controls how PHI can be used and disclosed, and the 
\f0\b Security Rule
\f1\b0 , which mandates administrative, physical, and technical safeguards for electronic PHI. HIPAA applies to "covered entities" (healthcare providers, insurers, clearinghouses) and their business associates. There's no formal "HIPAA certification" from the government\'97compliance is self-assessed and enforced through audits and penalties by the Office for Civil Rights.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 European Data Compliance\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b GDPR
\f1\b0  (General Data Protection Regulation) is the overarching framework for all personal data in the EU/EEA. It emphasizes consent, data minimization, the right to erasure, and data portability. For healthcare specifically, GDPR classifies health data as a "special category" requiring additional protections. Organizations must appoint Data Protection Officers and conduct Data Protection Impact Assessments for high-risk processing. Fines can reach 4% of global annual revenue.\
Some EU countries layer additional health-specific regulations on top of GDPR\'97France has requirements through CNIL, Germany has federal and state-level health data laws, etc.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 Healthcare-Specific Certifications and Standards\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b HITRUST CSF
\f1\b0  is probably the most recognized certification in US healthcare. It's a certifiable framework that harmonizes requirements from HIPAA, NIST, ISO, and other standards into a single assessment. Many healthcare organizations require HITRUST certification from their vendors.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 SOC 2
\f1\b0  (Service Organization Control 2) isn't healthcare-specific but is widely used by health tech companies. It audits controls around security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality, and privacy. A SOC 2 Type II report demonstrates that controls were operating effectively over time.\

\f0\b ISO 27001
\f1\b0  is the international standard for information security management systems. It's not healthcare-specific but provides a rigorous framework that many healthcare organizations use as a foundation, sometimes alongside healthcare-specific certifications.\

\f0\b ISO 27799
\f1\b0  specifically provides guidance on implementing ISO 27001 within healthcare environments, addressing the unique requirements of health informatics.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 <$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b\fs36 Other Notable Frameworks\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2>
\f0\b NIST Cybersecurity Framework
\f1\b0  is often referenced by US healthcare organizations as a security baseline. 
\f0\b FedRAMP
\f1\b0 matters if you're working with US government healthcare programs. In the UK, 
\f0\b NHS Data Security and Protection Toolkit
\f1\b0  is required for organizations handling NHS data.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The practical reality is that most healthcare technology companies pursue a combination\'97typically HITRUST or SOC 2 as a baseline certification, HIPAA compliance documentation, and GDPR compliance if serving European markets. The trend has been toward HITRUST because it maps across multiple frameworks and reduces audit fatigue.\
}